# MEC Server Placement and Task Scheduling
# Introduction: 
MEC (Mobile Edge Computing) has emerged as a key technology in today’s era to support many missions which require the most minimum delay in their services. MEC is a computing platform that could run applications inside wireless base stations to provide services to the UE (User Equipment) i.e. Mobile and Embedded devices.5G based MEC services can fully realize the advantages of low latency and high bandwidth in IoT, video, retail and other industries and also helps in reducing the Network Congestion. 
<br><br>
One of the major problems faced is the optimal location of the MEC Servers in a particular area having a close network of RANs. The placement of the MEC server also depends on the condition that it should guarantee the end to end low latency because of the 5g network, which helps in maintaining the QoS and efficiently managing the MEC Network. Parameters such as CPU Load, Memory and Network Congestion also affect the performance and QoS of the MEC which needs to be resolved before the task assignment is carried out by the MEC.
<br><br>
In this paper, we have developed an optimized algorithm that can successfully cluster the RANs (Radio Access Network) using a concept called Dynamic based K means clustering which can solve and deliver successful results in all significant aspects such as it can efficiently calculate the minimum required number and can provide better latency and workload aspect to the users. We incorporate interface algorithms such as silhouette method and elbow method to determine an initial K value or the number of clusters. The task scheduling functionality is implemented in such a way to give a limited load to each server from UE and balance the workload in MEC which in turn increases the life of the server along with keeping the cost economical for the telecom operators. Comparative research was also conducted, where in the <Algo_name> was tested against a few well known existing algorithms such GMM and DBSCAN. When demonstrated on the Shanghai Telecom dataset, the algorithm results in the generation of a minimal number of MEC Servers at optimized location to counter all the obstacles discussed above and provide better latency and workload aspect compared to the user.
<br><br>

# Related Work: 
MEC Server placements has previously been studied and implemented in various researches. In the following section, we present the research work and literature review that was carried out. 
<br><br>
Low Cost MEC Server Placement and Association in 5G Networks[1]
This paper is focused on the placement of MEC server and association algorithm that promises an end-to-end latency with a minimum number of servers to be placed.  An algorithm is implemented to determine the location of the MEC server as well as the serving MEC server for each radio access network (RAN) that satisfies a certain delay budget i.e. latency(2ms - 50ms) with the minimum number of MEC servers to be placed. The problem is formulated as a capacitated clustering problem, which finds the minimum number of clusters to cover all elements as well as the association between each cluster and the elements for given constraints. A practical algorithm, called LowMEP, is proposed which finds a minimum number of MEC servers considering both delay and workload budget in 5G networks.
<br><br>
Mobile Edge Computing Resource Optimization: a Geo-Clustering Approach[2]
MEC server systems dealing with key issues which include dimensioning such systems in terms of server size, server number, and server operation area to meet MEC goals can be tackled by a mixed-integer linear program and a graph-based algorithm taking into account a maximum MEC server Capacity. This paper focuses on a graph based algorithmic solution. Based on the spatial distribution of the communications, a MEC partition (the dividing of an area into MEC clusters with each cluster having a single MEC server) is located that favors the application representation at the edge instead of at the core network. A clustering algorithm is implemented on the dataset and the obtained MEC clusters have well-balanced loads and enable to keep a large portion of the traffic at the edge.
<br><br>
Edge Computing Server Placement with Capacitated location Allocation[3]
This paper aimed to improve application latencies and reduce data transfer load in the opportunistic Internet of Things systems. Minimizing the latencies that are approximated through different distance measures,  minimizing the deployment costs of the servers while limiting the maximum latency,  optimizing the trade-off between latency and deployment cost, or maximizing the user connections, i.e. coverage, within the clusters. It minimizes the distances between servers and their associated access points while taking into account capacity constraints for load balancing and enabling workload sharing between servers. It also includes practical concerns like prioritized locations and reliability concerns.  The algorithm works in a very effective manner to reduce latencies between access points and servers as well as a balanced load between the edge servers. The algorithm allows prioritizing server locations and provides reserve computational capacity as a reliability measure for edge application execution. 
<br><br>

—-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# References and Bibliography:
<br><br>
Dataset:
To make the proposed environment design realistic, we make use of base station locations and call and data requests dataset from Shanghai Telecom that include record of approximately 7 million call and data requests made through 2766 base stations from 9481 edge devices. Each call and data record is a tuple of request access time by an device from a base station. Shanghai being a heavily populated city makes it a suitable dataset to implement a mobile edge server placement solution in an ultra-dense MEC network.
<br><br>
The graphical depiction of base station locations is important to realize that a mobile edge server placement solution would require the edge servers to move to any of other base station locations. This means if there are 2766 base stations in the network then a mobile edge server can move to any of these locations. However, there are two problems associated with this assumption. First, the number of locations a mobile edge server can move at each transmission time interval would be dependent on the number of base stations in the network which would make it not scalable if the number of base stations is too high. Second, in a realistic world a mobile edge server would be deployed in a movable object, such as a vehicle, such that limiting the movement of edge servers to only nearby base station locations.
<br><br>
To quantify workload of a mobile edge server and delay experienced by a user equipment, we make use of records available in Shanghai Telecom dataset. The workload of a mobile edge server is quantified by summing up the requested call and data rates from the connected base stations. As a base station offloads its requested computational processing to the connected mobile edge server, therefore, summing up these requested rate is a reasonable assumption. The delay experiences by a user will be proportional to the distance between base station and mobile edge server locations assuming that user equipments are present in close vicinity to base stations. Therefore, the edge device access delay is defined in term of the sum of Euclidean distances from a base station to mobile edge servers to which incoming call and data requests are offloaded for processing or storage.
